IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE 
 
JACK L. MARCHAND II, § 
 § No. 533, 2018 
 Plaintiff Below, §  
 Appellant, § Court Below: Court of Chancery 
  § of the State of Delaware 
 v. § 
  § C.A. No. 2017-0586-JRS 
JOHN W. BARNHILL, JR., GREG §  
BRIDGES, RICHARD DICKSON,  § 
PAUL A. EHLERT, JIM E. KRUSE, § 
PAUL W. KRUSE, W.J. RANKIN, § 
HOWARD W. KRUSE, PATRICIA § 
I. RYAN, DOROTHY MCLEOD § 
MACINERNEY and BLUE BELL    § 
CREAMERIES USA, INC., § 
 § 
 Defendants Below, § 
 Appellee. § 
 
Submitted:   April 24, 2019 
Decided:   June 18, 2019 
Corrected:  June 19, 2019 
 
Before STRINE, Chief Justice; VALIHURA, VAUGHN, SEITZ, and 
TRAYNOR, Justices, constituting the Court en Banc. 
 
Upon appeal from the Court of Chancery.  REVERSED and REMANDED. 
 
Robert J. Kriner, Jr., Esquire (Argued), and Vera G. Belger, Esquire, CHIMICLES 
SCHWARTZ KRINER & DONALDSON-SMITH LLP, Wilmington, Delaware ; 
Michael Hawash, Esquire, and Jourdain Poupore, Esquire, HAWASH CICACK & 
GASTON LLP, Houston, Texas, Attorneys for Appellant, Jack L. Marchand II. 
 
Paul A. Fioravanti, Jr., Esquire ( Argued), and John G. Day, Esquire, PRICKETT, 
JONES & ELLIOT, P.A., Wilmington, Delaware, Attorneys for Appellees, John W. 
Barnhill, Jr., Richard Dickson, Paul A. Ehlert, Jim E. Kruse, W.J. Rankin, Howard 
W. Kruse, Patricia I. Ryan, Dorothy McLeod MacInerney, and no minal defendant 
Blue Bell Creameries USA, Inc. 

 
Srinivas M. Raju, Esquire, and Kelly L. Freund, Esquire, RICHARDS, LAYTON & 
FINGER, P.A., Wilmington, Delaware, Attorneys for Appellees, Greg Bridges and 
Paul W. Kruse.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STRINE, Chief Justice:

Blue Bell Creameries USA, Inc., one of the country’s largest ice cream 
manufacturers, suffered a listeria outbreak in early 2015, causing the compa ny to 
recall all of its products, shut down production at all of its plants, and lay off over a 
third of its workforce.  Blue Bell’s failure to contain listeria’s spread in its 
manufacturing plants caused listeria to be present in its products and had sad 
consequences.  Three people died as a result of the listeria outbreak.  Less 
consequentially, but nonetheless important for this litigation, stockholders also 
suffered losses because , after the operational shutdown, Blue Bell suffered a 
liquidity crisis that forced it to accept a dilutive private equity investment.   
Based on these unfortunate events, a stockholder brought a derivative suit 
against two key executives  and against Blue Bell’s directors claiming breaches of 
the defendants’ fiduciary duties.  T he complaint allege s that the executives —Paul 
Kruse, the President and CEO, and Greg Bridges, the Vice President of Operations—
breached their duties of care and loyalty by knowingly disregarding contamination 
risks and failing to oversee the safety of Blue Bell’s food-making operations, and 
that the directors breached their duty of loyalty under Caremark.1   
                                                 
1 In re Caremark Int’l Inc. Derivative Litig. , 698 A.2d 959 (Del. Ch.1996) (Allen, C.); see also 
App. to Opening Br. at A67 –68 (Verified Stockholder Derivative Action Complaint (Aug. 14, 
2017)).   

2 
The defendants moved to dismiss the complaint for failure to plead demand 
futility.2  The Court of Chancery granted the motion as to both claims.  As to the 
claim against management, the Court of Chancery held that the plaintiff “failed to 
plead particularized facts that raise a reasonable doubt as to whether a majority of 
[Blue Bell’s] Board could impartially consider a demand.”3  Although the complaint 
alleged facts sufficient to raise a reasonable doubt as to the impartiality of a number 
of Blue Bell’s directors, the plaintiff ultimately came up one short  in the Court of 
Chancery’s judgment: the plaintiff needed eight directors for a majority, but only 
had seven. 
As to the Caremark claim, the Court of Chancery held that the plaintiff did 
not plead any facts to support “his contention that the [Blue Bell] Board  ‘utterly’ 
failed to adopt or implement any reporting and compliance systems.”4  Although the 
plaintiff argued that Blue Bell’s board had no supervisory structure in place to 
oversee “health, safety and sanitation controls and compliance,” the Court of 
Chancery reasoned that “[w] hat Plaintiff really attempts to challenge is not the 
existence of monitoring and reporting controls, but the effectiveness of monitoring 
                                                 
2 App. to Answering Br. at B48–134 (Defendants’ Opening Br. in Support of their Joint Motion to 
Dismiss (Oct. 30, 2017)); see also Court of Chancery Rule 23.1.   
3 Marchand v. Barnhill, 2018 WL 4657159, at *16 (Del. Ch. Sept. 27, 2018).   
4 Id. at *18.   

3 
and reporting controls in particular instances,” and “[t]his is not a valid theory under 
. . . Caremark.”5 
In this opinion, we reverse as to both holdings.  
We first hold that the complaint pleads particularized facts sufficient to create 
a reasonable doubt that an additional director, W.J. Rankin, could act impartially in 
deciding to sue Paul Kruse, Blue Bell’s CEO, and his subordinate Greg Bridges, 
Blue Bell’s Vice President of Op erations, due to Rankin’s longstanding business 
affiliation and personal relationship  with the Kruse  family.6  According to the 
complaint, Rankin worked at Blue Bell for decades and owes his entire career to Ed 
Kruse, the current CEO’s father, who hired Rankin as his administrative assistant in 
1981 and promoted him five years later to the position of CFO , a position Rankin 
maintained until his retirement in 2014.  In 2004, while serving as CFO, Rankin was 
elected to Blue Bell’s board, and has served since then.  Moreover, the complaint 
alleges that the Kruse family showed its appreciation for Rankin not only by 
supporting his career, but also by leading a campaign that raised over $450,000 to 
name a building at the local university after Rankin.   Despite th e defendants’ 
contentions that Rankin’s relationship with the Kruse family was just an ordinary 
                                                 
5 Id.   
6 Because we hold that the complaint pleads particularized facts supporting a reasonable inference 
that Rankin could not be impartial as to suing a member of the Kruse family, we need not, and do 
not, reach that issue as to the other director whose impartiality the plaintiff challenges on appeal.   

4 
business relationship from which Rankin would derive no strong feelings of loyalty 
toward the Kruse family, these allegations are “suggestive of the type of very close 
personal [or professional] relationship that, like family ties, one would expect to 
heavily influence a human’s ability to exercise impartial judgment.” 7  Rankin’s 
apparently deep business and personal ties to the Kruse family raise a reasonable 
doubt as to whether Rankin could “impartially or objectively assess whether to bring 
a lawsuit against the sued party.”8  
As to the Caremark claim, we hold that the complaint alleges particularized 
facts that support a reasonable inference that the Blue Bell board failed to implement 
any system to monitor Blue Bell’ s food safety performance or compliance .  Under 
Caremark and this Court’s opinion in Stone v. Ritter ,9 directors have a duty “to 
exercise oversight” and to monitor the corporation’s operational viability, legal 
compliance, and financial p erformance.10  A board’s “ utter failure to attempt to 
assure a reasonable information and reporting system exists” is an act of bad faith in 
breach of the duty of loyalty.11   
                                                 
7 Sandys v. Pincus, 152 A.3d 124, 130 (Del. 2016).   
8 In re Oracle Corp. Derivative Litig., 824 A.2d 917, 942 (Del. Ch. 2003). 
9 911 A.2d 362 (Del. 2006). 
10 Id. at 364 (quoting In re Caremark Int’l Inc. Derivative Litig. , 698 A.2d  959, 971  (Del. 
Ch.1996)); see also In re Citigroup Inc. S’holder Derivative Litig. , 964 A.2d 106, 125  (Del. Ch. 
2009) (Chandler, C.).   
11 Caremark, 698 A.2d at 971.   

5 
As a monoline company that makes a single product —ice cream—Blue Bell 
can only thrive  if its consumers enjoy ed its products and were confident that its 
products were safe to eat.  That is, one of Blue Bell’s central compliance issues is 
food safety.  Despite this fact, the complaint alleges that Blue Bell’s board had no 
committee overseeing food safety, no full board-level process to address food safety 
issues, and no protocol by which the board was expected to be advised of food safety 
reports and developments.  Consistent with this dearth of any board -level effort at 
monitoring, the complaint pleads particular facts supporting an inference that during 
a crucial period when yellow and red flags about food safety were presented to 
management, there was no equivalent reporting to the board  and the board was not 
presented with any material information about food safety .  Thus, the complaint 
alleges specific facts that create a reasonable inference that the directors consciously 
failed “to attempt to ass ure a reasonable information and reporting system 
exist[ed].”12   
                                                 
12 Id.  

6 
I.  Background13 
A.  Blue Bell’s History and Operating Environment  
i.  History  
Founded in 1907 in Brenham, Texas, Blue Bell Creameries USA, Inc. (“Blue 
Bell”), a Delaware corporation, produces and distributes ice cream under the Blue 
Bell banner.14  By 1919, Blue Bell’s predecessor was struggling financially.  Blue 
Bell’s board turned to E.F. Kruse, who took over the company that year and turned 
it around.  Under his leadership, the company expanded and became profitable.15   
E.F. Kruse led the company until his unexpected death in 1951. 16  Upon his 
death, his sons, Ed F. Kruse and Howard Kruse, took over the company’s 
management.  Rapid expansion continued under Ed and Howard’s leadership.17  In 
                                                 
13 The facts come from the plaintiff’s complaint, documents incorporated by reference into the 
complaint, and the Court of Chancery’s opinion based on these same documents.     
14 Blue Bell Creameries USA, Inc. is a holding company.  Its only assets are a 69.6 percent interest 
in Blue Bell Creameries, L.P., which actually produces and distributes ice cream, and a 100 percent 
interest in Blue Bell Creameries, Inc., the general partner of Blue Bell Creameries, L.P.  Because 
the plaintiff is a stockholder of Blue Bell Creameries USA, the Court of Chancery requested 
supplemental briefing regarding the fiduciary duties of dual fid uciaries—because the holding 
company and the general partner have the same executives —and a board’s responsibilities when 
its only asset is a majority stake in a subsidiary.  App. to Opening Br. at A275 –83 (Letter from 
Vice Chancellor Slights to counsel re questing supplement submissions (May 11, 2018)).  But in 
its decision, the Court of Chancery sensibly and properly collapsed the enterprise for purposes of 
analyzing the complaint .  Marchand v. Barnhill , 2018 WL 4657159, at *3 (Del. Ch. Sept. 27, 
2018).   
15 App. to Opening Br. at A20 (Verified Stockholder Derivative Action Complaint (Aug. 14, 
2017)).    
16 Id. at A20–21.   
17 Id. at A21.   

7 
2004, Ed Kruse’s son, Paul Kruse, took over management, becoming Blue Bell’s 
President and CEO.18  Ten years later, in 2014, Paul Kruse also assumed the position 
of Chairman of the Board, taking the position from his retiring father.19   
ii.  The Regulated Nature of Blue Bell’s Industry  
As a U.S. food manufacturer, Blue Bell operates in a heavily regulated 
industry.  Under federal law, th e Food and Drug Administration ( “FDA”) may set 
food quality standards, require food manufacturing facilities to regi ster with the 
FDA, prohibit regulated manufacturers from placing adulterated food into interstate 
commerce, and hold companies liable if they place any adulterated foods into 
interstate commerce in violation of FDA rules. 20  Blue Bell is “required to comply 
with regulations and establish controls to monitor for, avoid and remediate 
contamination and conditions that expose the Company and its products to the risk 
of contamination.”21 
Specifically, FDA regulations require food manufacture rs to conduct 
operations “with adequate sanitation principles” 22 and, in line with that obligation, 
“must prepare . . . and implement a written food safety plan.” 23  As part of a 
                                                 
18 Id. at A28–29.   
19 Id.   
20 See 21 U.S.C. §§ 333, 341, 342, 350.   
21 App. to Opening Br. at A28 (Verified Stockholder De rivative Action Complaint (Aug. 14, 
2017)).   
22 21 C.F.R. § 110.80.   
23 Id. § 117.3.   

8 
manufacturer’s food safety plan, the manufacturer must include processes for 
conducting a hazard analysis that identifies possible food safety hazards, identifies 
and implements preventative controls to limit potential food hazards, implement s 
process controls, implement s sanitation controls, and monitors these preventative 
controls.  Appropriate corporate officials must monitor these preventative controls.24   
Not only is Blue Bell subject to federal regulations, but it must also adhere to 
various state regulations.  At the time of the listeria outbreak, Blue Bell operated in 
three states, and each had issued rules and regulations regarding the proper handling 
and production of food to ensure food safety.25   
B.  Plaintiff’s Complaint  
With that context out of the way, we briefly summarize the plaintiff’s well -
pled factual allegations and the reasonable inferences drawn from them.   
The complaint starts by observing that, a s a single -product food company, 
food safety is of obvious importance to Blue Bell. 26  But despite the critical nature 
of food safety for Blue Bell’s continued success, the complaint  alleges that 
management turned a blind eye to red and yellow flags that were waved in front of 
it by regulators and its own tests, and the board—by failing to implement any system 
                                                 
24 Marchand v. Barnhill, 2018 WL 4657159, at *9–11 (Del. Ch. Sept. 27, 2018).  
25 Id. 
26 App. to Opening Br. at A9 (Verified Stockholder Derivative Action Complaint (Aug. 14, 2017)) 

9 
to monitor the company’s food safety compliance programs—was unaware of any  
problems until it was too late.27    
i.  The Run-Up to the Listeria Outbreak 
According to the complaint, Blue Bell’s issues began to emerge in 2009.  At 
that time, Paul Kruse, Blue Bell’s President and CEO, and his cousin, Paul Bridges, 
were responsible for the three plants Blue Bell operate d in Texas, Oklahoma, and 
Alabama.28  The complaint alleges  that, despite being responsible for overseeing 
plant operations, Paul Kruse and Bridges failed to respond to signs of trouble in the 
run up to the listeria outbreak.  From 2009 to 2013 several regulators found troubling 
compliance failures at Blue Bell’s facilities:  
 In July 2009, the FDA’s inspection of the Texas facility revealed 
“two instances of condensation, one from a pipe carrying liquid 
caramel [that] was dripping into three gallon cartons waiting to 
be filled, and one dripping into ice cream sandwich wafers.” 29  
The FDA reported these observations directly to Paul Kruse, who 
assured the FDA that “condensation is treated by Blue Bell as a 
serious concern.”30 
 
 In March 2010, the Alabama Department of Health inspected the 
Alabama plant and “found equipment left on the floor and a 
ceiling in disrepair in the container forming room.”31   
 
 Two months later, in May 2010, the FDA returned to the Tex as 
plant “and observed ten violations that were cited to Paul Kruse 
                                                 
27 Id. at A9–11.   
28 Id. at A21.   
29 Id. at A25.   
30 Id. at A33.  
31 Id.    

10 
including, again, a condensation drip.”32  While the condensation 
drip persisted from the FDA’s last inspection of the Texas plant, 
the FDA also observed “ripped and open containers of 
ingredients, inconsistent hand -washing and glove use and a 
spider and its web near the ingredients.”33 
 
 In July 2011 , an inspection by “the Alabama Department of 
Public Health cited drips from a ceiling unit and pipelines, 
standing water, open tank lids and unprotected measuring 
cups.”34   
 
 Nine months later, in March 2012, an inspection of the Oklahoma 
facility revealed the plant’s “‘[f]ailure to manufacture foods 
under conditions and controls necessary to minimize 
contamination’ and ‘[f]ailure to handle and maintain equipment, 
containers and utensils used to hold food in [sic] manner that 
protects against contamination.’”35 
 
 That same month, in March 2012, “[t]he Alabama Department of 
Public Health required five changes” to the Alabama facility, 
“including instructions to clean various rooms and items, make 
repairs and [sic] after fruit processing to prevent 
contamination.”36  A year later, “in March 2013, the Alabama 
Department of Public Health again ordered cleaning and repairs 
and observed an uncapped fruit tank.”37  The Alabama 
Department of Public Health made similar observations in a July 
2014 inspection.38   
 
Regulatory inspections during this time were not the only signal that Blue Bell 
faced potential health safety risks .  In 2013, “the Company had five positive tests” 
                                                 
32 Id.   
33 Id. at A34.   
34 Id.   
35 Id.   
36 Id.   
37 Id.   
38 Id.   

11 
for listeria,39 and in January 2014, “the Company received a presumptive positive 
[l]isteria result reports from the third party laboratory for the [Oklahoma] facility 
on January 20, 2014 and the samples reported positive for a second time on January 
24, 2014.”40   
Although management had received reports about listeria’s growing presence 
in Blue Bell’s pla nts, the complaint alleges that the board never received any 
information about listeria or more generally about food safety issues.  Minutes from 
the board’s January 29, 2014 meeting “reflect no report or discussion of the 
increasingly frequent positive tests that had been occurring since 2013 or the third 
party lab reports received in the preceding two weeks.” 41  Board meeting minutes 
from February and March likewise reflect no board-level discussion of listeria.42   
During the rest of 2014, Blue Bell’s problems accelerated , but the board 
remained uninformed about Blue Bell’s problems .  In April, “[t] he Company 
received further positive [l]isteria lab tests regarding [the Oklahoma facility].” 43  
That same month, the company  had three “positive coliform tes ts far above the 
known legal regulator limits.”44  Yet, minutes from the April board meeting reflected 
                                                 
39 Id. at A49–50.   
40 Id. at A52.   
41 Id.   
42 Id. (“[T]here is no reference to Listeria or the lab reports in the minutes of the February or March 
2014 meetings.”).  
43 Id.   
44 Id. at A49–50.   

12 
no discussion of listeria.  Instead, the minutes note only that t he Oklahoma and 
Alabama facilities’ “plant operations were discussed briefly” and that  Bridges also 
discussed “a good report from the TCEQ [Texas Commission on Environmental 
Quality].”45 
Over the course  of 2014, Blue Bell received ten positive tests for listeria.  
According to the complaint, t hese positive tests “included repeated positive resu lts 
from the Company’s third party laboratory in 2014, on consecutive samples, 
evidencing the inadequacy of the Company’s remedial methods to eliminate the 
contamination.”46   
Despite management’s knowledge of the growing problem, the complaint 
alleges that this information  never made its way to the board, and the board 
continued to be uninformed about (and thus unaware of) the problem.  Minutes from 
the board’s 2014 meetings ar e bereft of reports on the listeria issues.  Only during 
the September meeting is sanitation discussed, when Bridges informed the board that 
“[t]he recent Silliker audit [Blue Bell’s third -party auditor for sanitation issues in 
2014] went well.” 47  This lone reference to a third -party audit is the only instance, 
                                                 
45 Id. at A170 (Minutes to April 29, 2014 board meeting).   
46 Id. at A49 (Verified Stockholder Derivative Action Complaint (Aug. 14, 2017)).   
47 Id. at A180 (Minutes to September 30, 2014 board meeting).  See also Marchand , 2018 WL 
4657159, at *6 n.72.   

13 
until the listeria outbreak forced the recall of Blue Bell’s products, of any board-
level discussion regarding food safety.   
At this stage of the case, we are bound to draw all fair inferences in th e 
plaintiff’s favor from the well-pled facts.  Based on this chronology of events, the 
plaintiffs have fairly pled that:  
 Blue Bell had no board committee charged with monitoring food 
safety;  
 
 Blue Bell’s full board did not have a process where a portion of 
the board’s meetings each year, for example either quarterly or 
biannually, were specifically devoted to food safety compliance; 
and 
 
 The Blue Bell board did not  have a protocol  requiring or have 
any expectation that management would deliver key food safety 
compliance reports or summaries of these reports to the board on 
a consistent and mandatory basis.  In fact, it is inferable that there 
was no expectation of reporting to the board of any kind. 
 
In short, the complaint pleads that the Blue Bell board had made no effort at all to 
implement a board-level system of mandatory reporting of any kind.   
ii.  The Listeria Outbreak and the Board’s Response 
Blue Bell’s listeria problem spread in 2015.  Starting in January 2015, one of 
Blue Bell’s product tests had positive coliform levels above legal limits.48  The same 
                                                 
48 App. to Opening Br. at A49 –50 (Verified Stockholder Derivative Action Complaint (Aug. 14 , 
2017)).   

14 
result appeared in February 2015. 49  And by this point, the problem spread to Blue 
Bell’s products and spiraled out of control.   
On February 13, 2015, “Blue Bell received notification that the Texas 
Department of State Health Services also had positive tests for [l]isteria in Blue Bell 
samples.”50  The Texas Department of State Health Services was alerted to these 
positive tests by the South Carolina Health Department. 51  Company swabs at the 
Texas facility on February 19 and 21, 2015 tested positive for listeria.52  Yet despite 
these reports to management, Blue Bell’s board was not informed by management 
about the sev ere problem.  The board met on February 19, 2015, following Blue 
Bell’s annual stockholders meeting, but there was no listeria discussion.53   
Four days later,  Blue Bell initiated a limited recall. 54  Two days after that, 
Blue Bell’s board met, and Bridges reported that “[t]he FDA is working with Texas 
health inspectors regarding the Company’s recent recall of products.  More 
information is developing and should be known within the next days or weeks.” 55  
Despite two years of evidence that listeria was a growing problem for Blue Bell, this 
is the first time the board discussed the issue, according to the complaint and the 
                                                 
49 Id.   
50 Id. at A36, A54.   
51 Id. at A54–55. 
52 Id.   
53 Id. at A55.   
54 Marchand v. Barnhill, 2018 WL 4657159, at *7 (Del. Ch. Sept. 27, 2018).   
55 App. to Opening Br. at A55 (Verified Stockholder Derivative Action Complaint (Aug. 14, 
2017)).   

15 
incorporated board minutes.  Instead of holding more frequent emergency board 
meetings to receive constant updates on the troubling fact tha t life -threatening 
bacteria was found in its products, Blue Bell’s board left the company’s response to 
management.   
And the problem got worse, with awful effects.  “In early March 2015, health 
authorities reported that they suspected a connection between  human [l]isteria 
infections in Kansas and products made by Blue Bell’s [Texas] facility.” 56  The 
outbreak in Kansas matched a listeria strain found in Blue Bell’s products in South 
Carolina.  And by March 23, 2015, Blue Bell was forced to recall more products.  
Two days later, Blue Bell’s board met and adopted a resolution “express[ing] 
support for Blue Bell’s CEO, management, and employees and encourag[ing] them 
to ensure that everything Blue Bell manufacture[s] and distributes is a wholesome 
and good testing [sic] product that our consumers deserve and expect.”57 
Blue Bell expanded the recall two weeks later, and less than a month later, on 
April 20, 2015, Blue Bell “instituted a recall of all products.” 58  By this point, the 
Center for Disease Controls and Prevention (“CDC”) had begun an investigation and 
discovered that the source of the listeria outbreak in Kansas was caused by Blue 
                                                 
56 Id. at A36.   
57 Id. at A56–57.   
58 Id. at A37.   

16 
Bell’s Texas and Oklahoma plants. 59  Ultimately, five adults in Kansas and three 
adults in Texas were sickened by Blue Bell’s products; three of the five Kansas 
adults died because of complications due to listeria infection.60  The CDC issued a 
recall to grocers and retailers, alerting them to the contamination and warning them 
against selling the products.61   
After Blue Bell’s full product recall, the FDA inspected each of the company’s 
three plants.  Each was found to have major deficiencies.  In the Texas plant, the 
FDA found a “failure to manufacture foods under conditions and controls necessary 
to minimize the potential for growth of microorganisms,” inadequate cleaning and 
sanitizing procedures, “failure to maintain buildings in repair sufficient to prevent 
food from coming [sic] adulterated,” and improper construction of the building that 
failed to prevent condensation from occurring.62  Likewise, at the Oklahoma facility, 
“[t]he FDA found that the Company had been receiving increasingly frequent 
positive [l]isteria tests at [the Oklahoma facility] for over three years,” failed “to 
manufacture and package foods under conditions and controls necessary to minimize 
the potential growth of microorganisms and contamination,” failed to perform 
testing to ferret out microbial growth, implemented inadequate cleaning and 
                                                 
59 Id. at A37–38.   
60 Id. at A37.  
61 Id.   
62 Id. at A38; see also id. at A77–80 (Food and Drug Administration Inspection Report for Blue 
Bell Creameries facility in Brenham, Texas (May 1, 2015)).   

17 
sterilization procedures, failed to provide run ning water at an appropriate 
temperature to sanitize equipment, and failed to store food in clean and sanitized 
portable equipment.63   
Although the Alabama facility fared better, the FDA still found contamination 
and several issues, including the “failure to perform microbial testing where 
necessary to identify possible food contamination,” “failure to maintain food contact 
surfaces to protect food from contamination by any source,” and inadequate 
construction of the facility such that condensation was like ly.64  Most of these 
findings, the complaint alleges, are unsurprising because similar deficiencies were 
found by the FDA and state regulators in the run up to the listeria outbreak, yet 
according to the FDA’s inspection after the fact, it appeared that neither management 
nor the board made progress on remedying these deficiencies.   
After the fact, various news outlets interviewed former Blue Bell employees 
who “claimed that Company management ignored complaints about factory 
conditions in [the Texas facility].”65  One former employee “reported [that] spilled 
ice cream was left to pool on the floor, ‘creating an environment where bacteria 
                                                 
63 Id. at A38–39 (Verified Stockholder Derivative Action Complaint (Aug. 14, 2017)); see also id. 
at A82–91 (Food and Drug Administration Inspection Record for Blue Bell Creameries facility in 
Broken Arrow, Oklahoma (Apr. 23, 2015)).   
64 Id. at A40–41 (Verified Stockholder Derivative Action Complaint (Aug. 14, 2017)); see also id. 
at A94–96 (Food and Drug Administration Inspection Report for Blue Bell Creameries facility in 
Sylacauga, Alabama (Apr. 30, 2015)).   
65 Id. at A35 (Verified Stockholder Derivative Action Complaint (Aug. 14, 2017)).   

18 
could flourish.’”66  Another former employee described being “instructed to pour ice 
cream and fruit that dripped off his machine into mix to be used later.”67   
iii.  The Aftermath of the Listeria Outbreak 
With its operations shuttered, Blue Bell faced a liquidity crisis.  Blue Bell 
initially sought a more traditional credit facility to bridge its liquidity, but after Blue 
Bell director W.J. Rankin informed his brother -in-law, Bill Reimann, about Blue 
Bell’s liquidity crunch, Blue Bell ended up striking a deal with Moo Partners, a fund 
controlled by Sid Bass and affiliated with Reimann.68  Moo Partners provided Blue 
Bell with a $125 million credit facility and purchased a $100 million warrant to 
acquire 42% of Blue Bell at $50,000 per share. 69  As part of Moo Partners’s 
investment conditions, Blue Bell also amended its  certificate of incorp oration to 
grant Moo the right to appoint one member of Blue Bell’s board who would be 
entitled to one-third of the board’s voting power (or five votes based on a then-10-
member board). 
After investing in Blue Bell, Moo named Reimann to Blue Bell’s board , 
expanding the board to 11 members with Reimann possessing five votes .70  In 
February 2016, Reimann suggested that the board separate the roles of CEO and 
                                                 
66 Id.   
67 Id. at A35–36.   
68 Id. at A42–43.     
69 Id.   
70 Id. at A46.   

19 
Chairman (both held by Paul Kruse).  The board voted to follow Reimann’s 
recommendation at its February 18th meeting, but after Paul Kruse disagreed with 
the recommendation  and threatened to resign as President and CEO if the split 
occurred, the board held another vote in which all members, except Reimann and 
Rankin, voted to restore the position of CEO and Chairman of the board.71   
C.  The Court of Chancery Dismisses the Case  
After requesting Blue Bell’s books and records through a § 220 request, the 
plaintiff, a Blue Bell stockholder, sued Blue Bell’s management and board 
derivatively, asserting two claims based on management’s alleged failure to respond 
appropriately to the red and yellow flags about growing food safety issues and the 
board’s violation of its duty of loyalty, under Caremark, by failing to implement any 
reporting system and therefore failing to inform itself about Blue Bell’s food safety 
compliance.  The Court of Chancery dismissed both claims, holding that the plaintiff 
failed to plead demand futility.   
As to the first claim, the plaintiff alleges that Paul Kruse, Blue Bell’s President 
and CEO, and Bridges, Blue Bell’s Vice President of Operations, had breached their 
duties of loyalty and care by knowingly disregarding contamination risks and failing 
to oversee Blue Bell’s operations and  food safety compliance process.72  “Because 
                                                 
71 Id. at A57–59.   
72 Id. at A67 (asserting a “derivative claim for breach of fiduciary duties of loyalty and care  for 
knowingly disregard of contammination [sic] risks and failure to oversee Blue Bell’s operation 
and compliance”).   

20 
directors are empowered to manage, or direct the management of, the business and 
affairs of the corporation,” the plaintiff’s complaint must allege facts suggesting that 
“demand is excused because the directors are incapable of making an impartial 
decision reg arding such litigation. ”73  The plaintiff’s  complaint claims that “[a] 
demand upon the Board of the Company to pursue claims a gainst Paul Kruse and 
Bridges . . . would be futile” because “the Kruse family—of which both Paul Kruse 
and Bridges are members —ha[s] long dominated Blue Bell” and the majority of 
directors are “long-time employees and/or otherwise beholden and loyal to the Kruse 
family.”74   
But the Court of Chancery held that the plaintiff “failed to plead particularized 
facts to raise a reasonable d oubt that a majority of the [Blue Bell board] members 
could have impartially considered a pre -suit demand.”75  Without belaboring the 
details of the Court of Chancery’s thorough analysis, which is somewhat 
complicated due to the unusual structure of Blue Bell’s board, we note that the court 
essentially ruled that the plaintiff came up one vote short.  To survive the Rule 23.1 
motion to dismiss, the complaint needed to allege particularized facts raising a 
reasonable doubt that directors holding eight of the 15 votes could have impartially 
                                                 
73 Rales v. Blasband, 634 A.2d 927, 932 (Del. 1993).   
74 App. to Opening Br. at A62 (Verified Stockholder Derivative Action Complaint (Au g. 14, 
2017)).   
75 Marchand v. Barnhill, 2018 WL 4657159, at *2 (Del. Ch. Sept. 27, 2018). 

21 
considered a demand, but the court held that the plaintiff had done so for directors 
holding only seven votes. 
One of the directors who the trial court held could consider demand 
impartially was Rankin, Blue Bell’s recently retired former CFO.  Although Rankin 
worked at Blue Bell for 28 years, the court emphasized that he was no longer 
employed by Blue Bell, having retired in 2014.  As to the allegations that donations 
from the Kruse family resulted in a building at Blinn Col lege being named for 
Rankin, the court noted that “the Complaint provide[d] no more specifics regarding 
the donation (i.e., who gave how much), and ma[de] no attempt to characterize the 
materiality of the gesture.” 76  That failure, the Court of Chancery con cluded, fell 
short of Rule 23.1’s particularity requirement.  Further, the court noted that Rankin 
voted against rescinding a board initiative to split the CEO and Chairman positions 
held by Paul Kruse.77  In the court’s view, that act was evidence that Rankin was not 
beholden to the Kruse family.  Ultimately, the Court of Chancery concluded that the 
plaintiff’s “allegation that Rankin lacks independence falls flat.”78 
The Court of Chancery also rejected the plaintiff’s second claim that Blue 
Bell’s directors breached their duty of loyalty under Caremark by failing to “institute 
                                                 
76 Id. at *15.  
77 Id.   
78 Id.   

22 
a system of controls and reporting” regarding food safety.79  In support of this claim, 
the plaintiff asserted, based on the facts alleged in the complaint and reasonable 
inferences fro m those fact s, that : (1) the Blue Bell board had no committee 
overseeing food safety; (2) Blue Bell’s board did not have any reporting system in 
place about food safety; (3) management knew about the growing listeria issues but 
did not report those issues to the board, further evidence that the board had no food 
safety reporting system in place; and (4) the board did not discuss food safety at its 
regular board meetings.   
Rejecting the plaintiff’s Caremark claim, the Vice Chancellor started by 
observing that “[d]espite the far-reaching regulatory schemes that governed Blue 
Bell’s operations at the time of the [l]isteria contamination, the Complaint contains 
no allegations that Blue Bell failed to implement the monitoring and reporting 
systems required by th e FDCA  [Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act] , FDA 
regulations or state statutes (or that it was ever cited for such a failure). ”80  In fact, 
the Court of Chancery concluded that “documents incorporated by reference in the 
Complaint reveal that Blue Bell di stributed a sanitation manual with standard 
operating and reporting procedures, and promulgated written procedures for 
                                                 
79 App. to Opening Br. at A68–69 (Verified Stockholder Derivative Action Complaint (Aug. 14, 
2017)).   
80 Marchand, 2018 WL 4657159, at *11.   

23 
processing and reporting consumer complaints.”81  And at the board level, the Vice 
Chancellor noted that “[b]oth Bridges and Paul Kruse . . . provided regular reports 
regarding Blue Bell operations to the .  . . Board,” including reports about audits of 
Blue Bell’s facilities.82   
Based on Blue Bell’s compliance with FDA regulations, ongoing third -party 
monitoring for contamination, and consis tent reporting by senior management to 
Blue Bell’s board on operations, the Court of Chancery concluded that there was a 
monitoring system in place.  At bottom, the Court of Chancery opined that “[w]hat 
Plaintiff really attempts to challenge is not the existence of monitoring and reporting 
controls, but the effectiveness of monitoring and reporting controls in particular 
instances.”83  That, the Court of Chancery held, does not state a Caremark claim.  As 
a result, the court held that demand was not excused as to the Caremark claims and 
dismissed the complaint.   
The plaintiff timely appealed from that dismissal.    
                                                 
81 Id. at *17.   
82 Id. 
83 Id. at *18 (emphasis in original).   

24 
II.  Analysis 
We review a motion to dismiss for failure to plead demand futility de novo.84   
A.  Rankin’s Independence 
We first address the plaintiff’s claim that the Court of Chancery erred by 
holding that the complaint did not allege particularized facts that raise a reasonable 
doubt as to whether directors holding a majority of the board’s votes  could 
impartially consider demand as to the management claims.  The Court of Chancery 
concluded that four directors representing eight votes were independent and that 
seven directors representing seven votes were not independent.  On appeal, the 
plaintiff challenges the Court of Chancery’s conclusion as to only Rankin and one 
other director, Paul Ehlert.  Holding that the Court of Chancery erred as to either 
director would be dispositive.  Because we hold that Rankin was not independent 
for demand futility purposes, we reverse and need not and do not address whether 
Ehlert was independent. 
On appeal, both parties agree that the Rales standard applies, 85 and we 
therefore use it to determine whether the Court of Chancery erred in finding that a 
majority of the  board was independent for pleading stage purposes.  “[A] lack of 
                                                 
84 Beam ex rel. Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, Inc. v. Stewart , 845 A.2d 1040, 1048 (Del. 
2004) (“This Court reviews de novo a decision of the Court of Chancery to d ismiss a derivative 
suit under Rule 23.1.”).   
85 See Rales v. Blasband, 634 A.2d 927, 932–34 (Del. 1993).   

25 
independence turns on ‘whether the plaintiffs have pled facts from which the 
director’s ability to act impartially on a matter important to the interested party can 
be doubted because that d irector may feel either subject to the interested party’s 
dominion or beholden to that interested party.” 86  When it comes to life’s more 
intimate relationships concerning friendship and family, our law cannot “ignore the 
social nature of humans” or that they are motivated by things other than money, such 
as “love, friendship, and collegiality.”87 
The standard for conducting this inquiry at the demand futility stage is well 
balanced, requiring that the plaintiff plead facts with particularity, but also requiring 
that this Court draw all reasonable inferences in the plaintiff’s favor. 88  That is, the 
plaintiff cannot just assert that a close relationship exists, but when the plaintiff 
pleads specific facts about the relationship—such as the length of the relationship or 
                                                 
86 Sandys v. Pincus, 152 A.3d 124, 128 (Del. 2016) (quoting Del. Cty. Emps. Ret. Fund v. Sanchez, 
124 A.3d 1017, 1024 n.25 (Del. 2015)).   
87 In re Oracle Corp. Derivative Litig., 824 A.2d 917, 938 (Del. Ch. 2003) (“Delaware law should 
not be based on a reductionist view of human nature that simplifies human motivations on the lines 
of the least sophisticated notions of the law and economics movement. ”); see also Sanchez, 124 
A.3d at 1022 (“Close friendships of that duration are likely considered precious by many people, 
and are rare.  People drift apart for many reasons, and when a close relationship endures for that 
long, a pleading stage inference arises that it is important to the parties.”).     
88 Sanchez, 124 A.3d at 1022 (“In that consideration, it cannot be ignored that although the plaintiff 
is bound to plead particularized facts in pleading a derivative complaint, so too is the court bound 
to draw all inferences from those particularized facts in favor of the plaintiff, not the defendant, 
when dismissal of a derivative complaint is sought.”).   

26 
details about the closeness of the relationship —then this Court is charged with 
making all reasonable inferences from those facts in the plaintiff’s favor.89 
From the pled facts, there is reason to doubt Rankin’s capacity to impartially 
decide whether to sue members of the Kruse family.  For starters, one can reasonably 
infer that Rankin’s successful career as a businessperson was in large measure due 
to the opportunities and mentoring given to him by Ed Kruse, Paul Kruse’s father, 
and other members of the Kruse family.  The complaint alleges that Rankin started 
as Ed Kruse’s administrative assistant and, over the course of a 28-year career with 
the company, rose to the high managerial position of CFO.90  Not only that, but 
Rankin was added to Blue Bell’s board in 2004,91 which one can reasonably infer 
was due to the support of the Kruse family.  Capping things off, the Kruse family 
spearheaded charitable efforts that led to a $450,000 donation to a key local college, 
resulting in Rankin being honor ed by having Blinn College’s new agricultural 
facility named after him .92  On a cold complaint, these facts support a reasonable 
inference that there are very warm and thick personal ties of respect, loyalty, and 
affection between Rankin and the Kruse family, which creates a reasonable doubt 
                                                 
89 Id. (holding that at the pleading stage this Court is “bound to draw all inferences from those 
particularized facts in favor of the plaintiff, not the defendant, when dismissal of a  derivative 
complaint is sought”).   
90 App. to Opening Br. at A17 –18 (Verified Stockholder Derivative Action Complaint (Aug. 14, 
2017).   
91 Id.   
92 Id.   

27 
that Rankin could have impartially decided whether to sue Paul Kruse and his 
subordinate Bridges.   
Even though Rankin had ties to the Kruse family that were simila r to other 
directors that the Court of Chancery found were sufficient at the pleading stage to 
support an inference that they could not act impartially in deciding whether to cause 
Blue Bell to sue Paul Kruse,93 the Court of Chancery concluded that because Rankin 
had voted differently from Paul Kruse on a proposal  to separate the CEO and 
Chairman position, these ties did not m atter.94  In doing so, the Court of Chancery 
ignored that the decision whether to sue someone is materially different and more 
important than the decision whether to part company with that person on a vote about 
corporate governance, and our law’s precedent recognizes that the nature of the 
decision at issue must be considered in determining wheth er a director is 
independent.95  As important, at the pleading stage, the Court of Chancery was bound 
                                                 
93 Marchand v. Barnhill, 2018 WL 4657159, at *14–15 (Del. Ch. Sept. 27, 2018) (holding that two 
directors who both worked at Blue Bell for most, if not all, of their entire careers were beholden 
to the Kruse family and therefore not independent for demand futility).    
94 Id. at *15.   
95 See Sandys v. Pincus, 152 A.3d 124, 134 (Del. 2016) (“Causing a lawsuit to be brought against 
another person is no small matter, and is the sort of thing that might plausibly endanger a 
relationship.”); Sciabacucchi v. Liberty Broadband Co rp., 2018 WL 3599997, at *14 (Del. Ch. 
July 26, 2018)  (“It is reasonable to infer that, if Zinterhofer voted to authorize a derivative suit 
against Malone, the relationship between Searchlight and Liberty Global might be in jeopardy.  
After all, ‘[c]ausing a lawsuit to be brought against another person is no small matter, and is the 
sort of thing that might plausibly endanger a relationship.’”); In re Oracle Corp. Derivative Litig., 
824 A.2d 917, 940 (Del. Ch. 2003)  (“In evaluating the independence of a spe cial litigation 
committee, this court must take into account the extraordinary importance and difficulty of such a 
committee’s responsibility.  It is, I daresay, easier to say no to a friend, relative, colleague, or boss 

28 
to accord the plaintiff  the benefit of all reasonable inferences, and the pled facts 
fairly support the inference that Rankin owes an important debt of gratitude and 
friendship to the Kruse family for giving him his first job, nurturing his progress 
from an entry level position to a top manager and director, and honoring him by 
spearheading a campaign to name a building at an important community institution 
after him.  Although the fact that fellow directors are social acquaintances who 
occasionally have d inner or go to common events does not, in itself, raise a fair 
inference of non -independence,96 our law has recognized that deep and long -
standing friendships are meaningful to human beings and that any realistic 
consideration of the question of independenc e must give weight to  these important 
relationships and their natural effect on the ability of the parties to act i mpartially 
toward each other.  As in cases like Sandys v. Pincus 97 and Delaware County 
Employees Retirement Fund v. Sanchez ,98 the important pe rsonal and business 
                                                 
who seeks assent for an act (e.g., a transaction) that has not yet occurred than it would be to cause 
a corporation to sue that person.  This is admittedly a determination of so-called ‘legislative fact,’ 
but one that can be rather safely made.  Denying a fellow director the ability to proceed on a matter 
important to him may not be easy, but it must, as a general matter, be less difficult than finding 
that there is reason to believe that the fellow director has committed serious wrongdoing and that 
a derivative suit should proceed against him.”) (footnotes omitted).   
96 See Beam ex rel. Martha Stewart Omnimedia, Inc. v. Stewart , 845 A.2d 1040, 1051 –52 (Del. 
2004). 
97 152 A.3d 124, 130 (Del. 2016) (holding that owning an airplane with the interested party “i s 
suggestive of the type of very close personal relationship that, like family ties, one would expe ct 
to heavily influence a human’s ability to exercise impartial judgment”). 
98 124 A.3d 1017, 1020–22 (Del. 2015) (holding that being “close personal friends for more than 
five decades” with the interested party gives rise to “a pleading stage inference . . . that it is 
important to the parties” and suggests that the director is not independent).   

29 
relationship that Rankin and the Kruse family have shared supports a pleading-stage 
inference that Rankin cannot act independently.   
Because the complaint pleads particularized facts that raise a reasonable doubt 
as to Rankin’s indepen dence, we reverse the Court of Chancery’s dismissal of the 
plaintiff’s claims against management  for failure to adequately plead demand 
futility. 
B.  The Caremark Claim  
The plaintiff also challenges the Court of Chancery’s dismissal of his 
Caremark claim.  Although Caremark claims are difficult to plead and ultimately to 
prove out, 99 we nonetheless disagree with the Court of Chancery’s decision to 
dismiss the plaintiff’s claim against the Blue Bell board. 
Under Caremark and Stone v. Ritter, a director must make a good faith effort 
to oversee  the company’s operations. 100  Failing to make that good faith effort 
breaches the duty of loyalty and can expose a director to liability .  In other words, 
                                                 
99 See Stone v. Ritter , 911 A.2d 362, 372 (Del. 2006) (“[A]  claim that directors are subject to 
personal liability for employee failures is possibly the most difficult theory in corporation law 
upon which a plaintiff might hope to win a judgment.” ) (internal quotation marks omitted);  
Guttman v. Huang, 823 A.2d 492, 506 (Del. Ch. 2003) (“A Caremark claim is a difficult one to 
prove.”); In re Caremark Int’ l Inc. Derivative Litig. , 698 A.2d 959,  967 (Del. Ch. 1996) (“ The 
theory here advanced is possibly the most difficult theory in corporation law upon which a plaintiff 
might hope to win a judgment.”).   
100 Caremark, 698 A.2d  at 970 (“[I]t is important that the board exercise a good fait h judgment 
that the corporation’s information and reporting system is in concept and design adequate to assure 
the board that appropriate information will come to its attention in a timely manner as a matter of 
ordinary operations, so that it may satisfy its responsibility.”).   

30 
for a plaintiff to prevail on a Caremark claim, the plaintiff must show that a fiduciary 
acted in bad faith—“the state of mind traditionally used to define the mindset of a 
disloyal director.”101   
Bad faith is established, under Caremark, when “t he directors [completely] 
fail[] to implement any reporting or information system or controls[,] or . . . having 
implemented such a system or controls, consciously fail[] to monitor or oversee its 
operations thus disabling themselves from being informed of risks or problems 
requiring their attention.”102  In short, to satisfy their duty of loyalty, directors must 
make a good faith effort to implement an oversight system and then monitor it. 
As with any other disinterested business judgment, directors have great 
discretion to design context - and industry -specific approac hes tailored to their 
companies’ businesses and resources. 103  But Caremark does have a bottom -line 
requirement that is important: the board must make a good faith effort—i.e., try—to 
                                                 
101 Desimone v. Barrows, 924 A.2d 908, 935 (Del. Ch. 2007).  
102 Stone, 911 A.2d at 370–72.   
103 In re Citigroup Inc. S’holder Derivative Litig. , 964 A.2d 106, 125 –26 (Del. Ch. 2009) 
(Chandler, C.) (noting that Caremark “does not eviscerate the core protections of the business 
judgment rule”); Caremark, 698 A.2d at 970 (“Obviously the level of detail that is appropriate for 
such an information system is a question of business judgment.”); Desimone, 924 A.2d at 935 n.95 
(noting that the approaches boards take to monitoring the corporation under their Caremark duty 
“will obviously vary because of the different circumstances corporations confront”); see also 
Caremark, 698 A.2d at 971 (“ But, of course, the duty to act in good faith to be informed cannot 
be thought to require directors to possess detailed information about all aspects of the operation of 
the enterprise.  Such a requirement would simple [sic] be inconsistent with the scale and scope of 
efficient organization size in this technological age.”).    

31 
put in place a reasonable board-level system of monitoring and reporting.104  Thus, 
our case law gives deference to boards and has dismissed Caremark cases even when 
illegal or harmful company activities escaped detection, when the plaintiffs have 
been unable to plead that the board failed to make the required good faith effort to  
put a reasonable compliance and reporting system in place.105 
For that reason, our focus here is on the key issue of whether the plaintiff has 
pled facts from which we can infer that Blue Bell’s board made no effort to put in 
place a board -level compliance system.  That is, we are not examining the 
effectiveness of a board -level compliance and reporting system  after the fact .  
Rather, we are focusing on whether the complaint ple ads facts supporting a 
reasonable inference that the board did not undertake good  faith efforts to put a 
board-level system of monitoring and reporting in place.   
                                                 
104 Stone, 911 A.2d at 370; see also Caremark , 698 A.2d at 971 (“ Generally where a claim of 
directorial liability for corporate loss is predicated u pon ignorance of liability creating act ivities 
within the corporation,  . . . only a sustained or systematic failure of the board to exercise 
oversight—such as an utter failure to attempt to assure a reasonable information and reporting 
system exists—will establish the lack of good faith that is a necessary condition to liability.”).   
105 See, e.g., Stone, 911 A.2d at 372–73 (dismissing a Caremark claim despite the fact that the 
company violated the Bank Secrecy Act and was fined $50 million) ; In re General Motors 
Derivative Litig., 2015 WL 3958724, at *1, 17 (Del. Ch. 2015) (dismissing a Caremark claim 
despite the fact that the company’s actions “led to monetary loss on the part of the corporation, via 
fines, damages and punitive damages from lawsuits; reputational damage; and most distressingly, 
personal injury and death to GM customers”); In re Citigroup Inc. S’holder Derivative Litig., 964 
A.2d at 127 (dismissing a Caremark claim despite the fact that the company suffered billions of 
dollars in losses because of its exposure to subprime mortgages).   

32 
Under Caremark, a director may be held liable if she acts in bad faith in the 
sense that she made no good faith effort to ensure that the company had in place any 
“system of controls.”106  Here, the plaintiff did as our law encourages and sought out 
books and records about the extent of board -level compliance efforts at B lue Bell 
regarding what has to be one of the most central issues at the company: whether it is 
ensuring that the only product it makes —ice cream—is safe to eat. 107  Using these 
books and records, the complaint fairly alleges  that before the listeria outbreak 
engulfed the company:  
 no board committee that addressed food safety existed;  
 
 no regular process or protocols that required management to keep 
the board apprised of food safety compliance practices, risks, or 
reports existed;  
 
 no schedule for the board to consider on a regular basis, such as 
quarterly or biannually, any key food safety risks existed;  
 
 during a key period leading up to the deaths of three customers, 
management received reports that contained what could be 
considered red, or at least yellow , flags, and the board minutes 
of the relevant period reveal ed no evidence that these were 
disclosed to the board;  
 
                                                 
106 Stone, 911 A.2d at 370; see also Caremark , 698 A.2d at 971 (“Generally where a claim of 
directorial liability for corporate loss is predicated upon ignorance of liability creating act ivities 
within the corpor ation, . . . only a sustained or systematic failure of the board to exercise 
oversight—such as an utter failure to attempt to assure a reasonable information and reporting 
system exists—will establish the lack of good faith that is a necessary condition to liability.”).   
107 Though, to be fair and completely accurate, Blue Bell does make a few other related products, 
such as frozen yogurt. 

33 
 the board was given certain favorable information about food 
safety by management, but was not given important reports that 
presented a much different picture; and  
 
 the board meetings are devoid of any suggestion that there was 
any regular discussion of food safety issues.   
 
And the complaint goes on to allege that after the listeria outbreak, the FDA 
discovered a number of systematic deficiencies in all of Blue Bell’s plants—such as 
plants being constructed “in such a manner as to [not] pr event drip and condensate 
from contaminating food, food-contact surfaces, and food-packing material”—that 
might have been rectified had any reasonable reporting system that required 
management to relay food safety information to the board on an ongoing basis been 
in place.108 
In sum, the complaint supports an inference that no system of board -level 
compliance monitoring and reporting existed at Blue Bell.  Although Caremark is a 
tough standard for plaintiffs to meet, the plaintiff has met it here.  When a pla intiff 
can plead an inference that a board has undertaken no efforts to make sure it is 
informed of a compliance issue intrinsically critical to the company’s business 
operation, then that supports an inference that the board has not made the good faith 
effort that Caremark requires.    
                                                 
108 App. to Opening Br. at A94 –96 (Food and Drug Administration Inspection Report for Blue 
Bell Creameries facility in Sylacauga, Alabama (Apr. 30, 2015)).   

34 
In defending this case, the director s largely point out that by law  Blue Bell 
had to meet FDA and state  regulatory requirements for food safety, and that the 
company had in place certain manuals for employees regarding safety practices and 
commissioned audits from time to time.109  In the same vein, the directors emphasize 
that the government regularly inspected Blue Be ll’s facilities, and Blue Bell 
management got the results.110 
But the fact that Blue Bell nominally complied with FDA regulations does not 
imply that the board implemented a system to monitor food safety  at the board 
level.111  Indeed, these types of routine regulatory requirements, although important, 
are not typically directed at the board.  At best, Blue Bell’s compliance with these 
requirements shows only that management was following, in a nominal way, certain 
standard requirements of state and federal law .  It does not rationally suggest that 
the board implemented a reporting system to monitor food saf ety or Blue Bell’s 
operational performance.  The mundane reality that Blue Bell is in a highly regulated 
                                                 
109 Answering Br. at 28–29.   
110 Answering Br. at 28–29; see also Marchand v. Barnhill, 2018 WL 4657159, at *17 (Del. Ch. 
Sept. 27, 2018) (“[D] ocuments incorporated by reference in the Complaint reveal that Blue Bell 
distributed a sanitation manual with standard operating and reporting procedures, and promulgated 
written procedures for processing and reporting consumer complaints.  Blue Bell engaged a third-
party laboratory and food safety auditor to test for the presence of  dangerous contaminates in its 
facilities.”).   
111 Stone, 911 A.2d at 368 (“To the contrary, the Caremark Court stated, ‘it is important that the 
board exercise a good faith judgment that the corporation’s information and reporting system is in 
concept and design adequate to assure the board that appropriate information will come to its 
attention in a timely manner as a matter of ordinary operations, so that it may satisfy its 
responsibility.’”) (quoting Caremark, 698 A.2d at 970) (emphasis added). 

35 
industry and complied with some of the applicable regulations does not foreclose 
any pleading-stage inference that the directors’ lack of attentiveness rose to the level 
of bad faith indifference required to state a Caremark claim.   
In answering the plaintiff’s argument, the Blue Bell directors also stress that 
management regularly reported to them on “operational issues.”  This response is 
telling.  In decisions dismissing Caremark claims, the plaintiffs usually lose because 
they must concede the existence of board-level systems of monitoring and oversight 
such as a relevant committee, a regular protocol requiring board-level reports about 
the relevant risks, or the board’s use of third-party monitors, auditors, or 
consultants.112  For example, in Stone v. Ritter , although the company paid $50 
                                                 
112 See, e.g., City of Birmingham Ret. Sys. v. Good, 177 A.3d 47, 59 (Del. 2017) (affirming the 
Court of Chancery’s dismissal of a Caremark claim because “reports to the board showed that the 
board ‘exercised overs ight by relying on periodic reports’ from the officers” and that board 
presentations “identified issues with the coal ash disposal ponds, but also informed the board of 
the actions taken to address the regulatory concerns”); Stone, 911 A.2d at 372 –73 (affirming the 
Court of Chancery’s dismissal of a Caremark claim, in part, because an outside auditor’s report 
“reflect[s] that the Board received and approved relevant policies and procedures, delegated to 
certain employees and departments the responsibility f or filing [suspicious activity reports] and 
monitoring compliance, and exercised oversight by relying on periodic reports from them”); In re 
General Motors Derivative Litig. , 2015 WL 3958721, at *14 (Del. Ch. 2015) (dismissing a 
Caremark claim where “GM had a system for reporting risk to the Board, but in the Plaintiffs’ 
view it should have been a better system”); In re Citigroup Inc. S’holder Derivative Litig. , 964 
A.2d 106, 127 (Del. Ch. 2009) (dismissing a Caremark claim because “[p]laintiffs do not contest 
that Citigroup had procedures and controls in place that were designed to monitor risk”); Desimone 
v. Barrows, 924 A.2d 908, 940 (Del. Ch. 2007) (dismissing a Caremark claim premised on the 
plaintiff’s allegations that a properly formed and well -functioning audit committee must have 
known about options backdating despite the fact that management intentionally kept this 
information from the audit committee); Guttman v. Huang, 823 A.2d 492, 506–07 (Del. Ch. 2003) 
(dismissing a Caremark claim because the plaintiff failed to plead any particularized facts about 
the audit committee’s lack of reporting or information systems).   

36 
million in fine s related “to the failure by bank employees” to comply with “the 
federal Bank Secrecy Act,” 113 the“[b]oard dedicated considerable resources to the 
[Bank Secrecy Act] compliance program and put into place numerous procedures 
and systems to attempt to ensure compliance.”114  Accordingly, this Court affirmed 
the Court of Chancery’s dismissal of a Caremark claim.  Here,  the Blue Bell 
directors just argue that because Blue Bell management, in its discretion, discussed 
general operations with the board, a Caremark claim is not stated.  
But if that were the case, then Caremark would be a chimera.  At every board 
meeting of any company, it is likely that management will touch on some operational 
issue.  Although Caremark may not require as much as some commentators wish,115 
it does require that a board make a good faith effort to put in place a reasonable 
system of monitoring and reporting about the corporation’s central compliance risks.  
In Blue Bell’s case, food safety was essential and mission critical.  The complaint 
pled facts supporting a fair inference that no board-level system of monitoring or 
reporting on food safety existed.   
                                                 
113 911 A.2d at 365–66. 
114 Id. at 371.   
115 See, e.g., John Armour, et al., Board Compliance, 104 MINNESOTA L. REV. (forthcoming 2020) 
(manuscript at 47), https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3205600; John Armour 
& Jeffrey N. Gordon, Systemic Harms and Shareholder Value, 6 J. LEGAL ANALYSIS 35, 46 (2014); 
Hillary A. Sale, Monitoring Caremark’s Good Faith, 32 DEL. J. CORP. L. 719, 753 (2007). 

37 
If Caremark means anything, it is that a corporate board must make a good 
faith effort to exercise its duty of care.   A failure to make t hat effort constitutes a 
breach of the duty of loyalty.   Where, as here, a plaintiff  has followed our  
admonishment to seek out relevant books and records 116 and then uses those books 
and records to plead facts supporting a fair inference that no reasonable compliance 
system and protocols were established as to the obviously most central consumer 
safety and legal compliance issue facing the company, that the board’s lack of efforts 
resulted in it not rece iving official notices of food safety deficiencies for several 
years, and that, as a failure to take remedial action, the company exposed consumers 
to listeria-infected ice cream, resulting in the death and injury of company 
customers, the plaintiff  has me t his onerous pleading burden and is entitled to 
discovery to prove out his claim. 
III.  Conclusion 
We therefore reverse the Court of Chancery’s decision and remand for 
proceedings consistent with this opinion.   
                                                 
116 See Sandys v. Pincus , 152 A.3d 124, 128 (Del. 2016) (“ For many years, this Court and the 
Court of Chancery have advised derivative plaintiffs to take seriously their obligations to plead 
particularized facts justifying demand excusal.”).    